+++
abstract = "In this paper, we study the problem of facial expression recognition using a novel space-time geometric representation. We describe the temporal evolution of facial landmarks as parametrized trajectories on the Riemannian manifold of positive semidefinite matrices of fixed-rank. Our representation has the advantage to bring naturally a second desirable quantity when comparing shapes -- the spatial covariance -- in addition to the conventional affine-shape representation. We derive then geometric and computational tools for rate-invariant analysis and adaptive re-sampling of trajectories, grounding on the Riemannian geometry of the manifold. Specifically, our approach involves three steps: 1) facial landmarks are first mapped into the Riemannian manifold of positive semidefinite matrices of rank 2, to build time-parameterized trajectories; 2) a temporal alignment is performed on the trajectories, providing a geometry-aware (dis-)similarity measure between them; 3) finally, pairwise proximity function SVM (ppfSVM) is used to classify them, incorporating the latter (dis-)similarity measure into the kernel function. We show the effectiveness of the proposed approach on four publicly available benchmarks (CK+, MMI, Oulu-CASIA, and AFEW). The results of the proposed approach are comparable to or better than the state-of-the-art methods when involving only facial landmarks."
abstract_short = "In this paper, we study the problem of facial expression recognition using a novel space-time geometric representation. We describe the temporal evolution of facial landmarks as parametrized trajectories on the Riemannian manifold of positive semidefinite matrices of fixed-rank. Our approach involves three steps: 1) facial landmarks are first mapped into the Riemannian manifold of positive semidefinite matrices of rank 2, to build time-parameterized trajectories; 2) a temporal alignment is performed on the trajectories, providing a geometry-aware (dis-)similarity measure between them; 3) finally, pairwise proximity function SVM (ppfSVM) is used to classify them, incorporating the latter (dis-)similarity measure into the kernel function. We show the effectiveness of the proposed approach on four publicly available benchmarks (CK+, MMI, Oulu-CASIA, and AFEW). The results of the proposed approach are comparable to or better than the state-of-the-art methods when involving only facial landmarks."
authors = ["A. Kacem", "M. Daoudi","B. Ben Amor", "J-C Alvarez-Paiva"] 
date = "2017-10-22"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["1"]
publication = "In International Conference on Computer Vision"
publication_short = "In *ICCV 2017*"
selected = true
title = "A Novel Space-Time Representation on the Positive Semidefinite Con for Facial Expression Recognitio"
url_code = "#"
url_dataset = "#"
url_pdf = "https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.06440.pdf"
url_project = "#"
url_slides = "#"
url_video = "#"

[[url_custom]]
name = "Custom Link"
url = "http://www.example.org"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++




More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
